1.	If we are in the directory X and we are running rmdir X being in that directory X. Will this command successfully removes the directory or not. 
= No, we should come out of the directory to remove that directory.
2.	What are daemons? 
= A daemon  is a Linux or UNIX program that runs in the background. Almost all daemons have names that end with the letter "d". For example, httpd the daemon that handles the Apache server, or, sshd which handles SSH remote access connections
3.	What are the different modes when using VI editor?
= While using the VI editor as a text editor there are two modes.
a)	Command mode b) Insert mode
 
4.	What is a grep command?
=Grep stands for globally search for regular expression and print out is a filter mechanism in which the command helps to search for the pattern as the regular expression and gives the line and file that contain those pattern.
5.	 What are the contents of /usr/local?
=It contains Locally installed software.

6.	 How cd ~, cd / and cd - are different from each other?
Cd ~ command change current directory to user’s home
cd- command change current directory to the directory you were last in
cd/ command take you to the root directory.

7.	 Which command is used to display the path of the current working directory?
= Pwd

8.	 What is the command to run a program with elevated permissions?
=Sudo
9.	How to switch to superuser (root) with elevated permissions?

10) Which command to switch to the root user?
11) Which command is used to switch from superuser to normal user? 
= Su command is used
12) Which command is used to clear the terminal? 
= clear
13) Which command is used to create multiple directories simultaneously?
= MKdir
14) Which command is used to move to parent directory? 
=cd-
15) Which command is used to display the contents of subdirectories?
=ls
16) Which command is used to display the list of content in reverse order?
=-r
17) Which command is used to display the contents of the parent directory? 
18) How to remove directory along with subdirectories? 
= rm -r directory
18) How to move multiple files of the same extension to a different directory?
 23. Which command is used to list the name of files starting from any particular alphabet or string? 
ls abc*
24. How to move multiple files of the same extension to a different directory? 
25. What command is used to change the ownership of a file? 
= chown
26. How to delete a directory forcefully? 
=rm -rf dir
27. How to forcefully stop a process which is running in the background?
 28. Which command is used to display the current username? 
= whoami
29. How to determine the type of a file? 
=file

30. Which command is used to create a new empty file?
= touch 
 31. Which command is used to display all the file names along with their types of the current directory?
Ls -f
 33. How to delete a directory recursively i.e. it asks before the deletion on subdirectories?
 34. Which command shows the users that are logged in?
= w
 35. Which command is used to rename the file?
Rename
36. What is the difference between mv and rename? 
Mv will both rename and move the file while rename only rename the file
37. Which command is used to change the permissions of a file?
= chmod
 38. What command is used to show how long it's been since the server was rebooted? 
= who command and last command
